# Antisocial_(Trust_song)

*[Voce originale su Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Antisocial_%28Trust_song%29)*

"**Antisocial**" is a song by the French hard rock band Trust, from their album *Répression*. The song was written by Bernie Bonvoisin and Norbert Krief.

Unusually for a heavy metal track, it was played on mainstream radio stations RTL and France Inter, helping the album sell over 800,000 copies in 1980. Evoking a dehumanised, individualistic and brutal society, the lyrics captured the social alienation of a generation disillusioned by the excesses of its elders and the 1973 oil crisis. According to rock critic Michka Assayas, "Antisocial" is "the hymn that definitely buried the Glorious Thirty".

## Anthrax version

Professional ratings

| Review scores | |
| --- | --- |
| Source | Rating |
| *Number One* |  |

American thrash metal band Anthrax covered the song, using the alternate English lyrics, on their 1988 album *State of Euphoria*. Their cover of the song also appears on the second disc of their compilation album, *Anthrology: No Hit Wonders (1985–1991)*, along with a version featuring the verses sung in French.

*Track Listing* (international version)

* 1. "Antisocial" (Trust cover)
* 2. "Parasite" (Kiss cover)
* 3. "Le Sects" (Trust cover)

*Track Listing* (foreign import)

* 1. "Antisocial" (Trust cover)
* 2. "Make Me Laugh"
* 3. "Antisocial (live)" (Trust cover)

*Notes*

* The artwork for the "Antisocial" single would also later be used for "Penikufesin".
* The foreign import used unique artwork, different from the international version. It showed the "NOT" Man riding on a skateboard spray-painting "Antisocial" onto the side of a wall.
* On the international single, the title of the song on the cover artwork was shown as "Anti-Social".

## Charts for Anthrax version

| Chart (1989) | Peak position |
| --- | --- |
| UK Singles (Official Charts) | 44 |
