# Antithetic_variates

*[Voce originale su Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Antithetic_variates)*

In statistics, the **antithetic variates** method is a variance reduction technique used in Monte Carlo methods. Considering that the error in the simulated signal (using Monte Carlo methods) has a one-over square root convergence, a very large number of sample paths is required to obtain an accurate result. The antithetic variates method reduces the variance of the simulation results.

## Underlying principle

The antithetic variates technique consists, for every sample path obtained, in taking its antithetic path — that is given a path 

{

ε

1
,
…
,

ε

M
}
{\displaystyle \{\varepsilon \_{1},\dots ,\varepsilon \_{M}\}}
 to also take 

{
−

ε

1
,
…
,
−

ε

M
}
{\displaystyle \{-\varepsilon \_{1},\dots ,-\varepsilon \_{M}\}}
. The advantage of this technique is twofold: it reduces the number of normal samples to be taken to generate *N* paths, and it reduces the variance of the sample paths, improving the precision.

Suppose that we would like to estimate

:   θ
    =

    E
    (
    h
    (
    X
    )
    )
    =

    E
    (
    Y
    )

    {\displaystyle \theta =\mathrm {E} (h(X))=\mathrm {E} (Y)\,}

For that we have generated two samples

:   Y

    1

     and 

    Y

    2

    {\displaystyle Y\_{1}{\text{ and }}Y\_{2}\,}

An unbiased estimate of 

θ
{\displaystyle {\theta }}
 is given by

:   θ
    ^
    =

    Y

    1
    +

    Y

    2
    2
    .
    {\displaystyle {\hat {\theta }}={\frac {Y\_{1}+Y\_{2}}{2}}.}

And

:   Var
    (

    θ
    ^
    )
    =

    Var
    (

    Y

    1
    )
    +

    Var
    (

    Y

    2
    )
    +
    2

    Cov
    (

    Y

    1
    ,

    Y

    2
    )
    4
    {\displaystyle {\text{Var}}({\hat {\theta }})={\frac {{\text{Var}}(Y\_{1})+{\text{Var}}(Y\_{2})+2{\text{Cov}}(Y\_{1},Y\_{2})}{4}}}

so variance is reduced if 

Cov
(

Y

1
,

Y

2
)
{\displaystyle {\text{Cov}}(Y\_{1},Y\_{2})}
 is negative.

## Example 1

If the law of the variable *X* follows a uniform distribution along [0, 1], the first sample will be 

u

1
,
…
,

u

n
{\displaystyle u\_{1},\ldots ,u\_{n}}
, where, for any given *i*, 

u

i
{\displaystyle u\_{i}}
 is obtained from *U*(0, 1). The second sample is built from 

u

1
′
,
…
,

u

n
′
{\displaystyle u'\_{1},\ldots ,u'\_{n}}
, where, for any given *i*: 

u

i
′
=
1
−

u

i
{\displaystyle u'\_{i}=1-u\_{i}}
. If the set 

u

i
{\displaystyle u\_{i}}
 is uniform along [0, 1], so are 

u

i
′
{\displaystyle u'\_{i}}
. Furthermore, covariance is negative, allowing for initial variance reduction.

## Example 2: integral calculation

We would like to estimate

:   I
    =

    ∫

    0

    1

    1

    1
    +
    x

    d
    x
    .
    {\displaystyle I=\int \_{0}^{1}{\frac {1}{1+x}}\,\mathrm {d} x.}

The exact result is 

I
=
ln
⁡
2
≈
0.69314718
{\displaystyle I=\ln 2\approx 0.69314718}
. This integral can be seen as the expected value of 

f
(
U
)
{\displaystyle f(U)}
, where

:   f
    (
    x
    )
    =

    1

    1
    +
    x
    {\displaystyle f(x)={\frac {1}{1+x}}}

and *U* follows a uniform distribution [0, 1].

The following table compares the classical Monte Carlo estimate (sample size: 2*n*, where *n* = 1500) to the antithetic variates estimate (sample size: *n*, completed with the transformed sample 1 − *u**i*):

:   |  |  |  |
    | --- | --- | --- |
    |  | **Estimate** | **standard error** |
    | *Classical Estimate* | 0.69365 | 0.00255 |
    | *Antithetic Variates* | 0.69399 | 0.00063 |

The use of the antithetic variates method to estimate the result shows an important variance reduction.

## See also

* Control variates
