# Antje_Mönning

*[Voce originale su Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Antje_M%C3%B6nning)*

**Antje Nikola Mönning** (born 2 February 1977) is a German actress.

## Career

Born in Lüdinghausen, Mönning studied acting from 1999 until 2002 at the Schauspiel München actors' studio. Her first television-role was in the 2003 crime-series *Die Wache* on RTL. This was followed by a string of other supporting- and leading-roles on German television, most-notably in 2008 and 2009 as a nun in the ARD-series *Um Himmels Willen*. Apart from her television- and film-work, she also appeared on several German and other European stages and toured the US with a musical. After appearing throughout her career in several short films, she co-produced and played a lead-role in the 2009 film *Engel mit schmutzigen Flügeln* (lit.: *Angel with dirty Wings*), directed by Roland Reber. In 2009, Mönning was a jury-member at the Sitges Film Festival in Spain.

Mönning lived together with Roland Reber, his wife, and the actress Marina Anna Eich. Mönning co-produced and played a leading role in Reber's 2012 film *Die Wahrheit der Lüge* (*The Truth of the Lie*).

Mönning again collaborated with Reber, co-writing and starring in the 2017 film *Der Geschmack von Leben* (*The Taste of Life*). Mönning portrays Nikki, the protagonist.

On 27 April 2023, Mönnings's book *"Nicht normal" ist ganz normal* was published.

## Filmography

* *Um Himmels Willen* (2008-2009)
* *Um Himmels Willen – Weihnachten in Kaltenthal* (2008)
* *Engel mit schmutzigen Flügeln* (2009)
* *Die Wahrheit der Lüge* (2011)
* *Illusion* (2013)
* *Der Geschmack von Leben* (2017)
* *Roland Rebers Todesrevue* (2019)
