# Antique_Olive

*[Voce originale su Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Antique_Olive)*

**Antique Olive** is a humanist sans-serif typeface ("antique" being equivalent to sans-serif in French typographic conventions). Along the lines of Gill Sans, it was designed in the early 1960s by French typographer Roger Excoffon, an art director and former consultant to the Marseille based Fonderie Olive. In addition to a basic weight, *Antique Olive* was produced in medium, condensed, wide, bold, condensed bold, extra bold (known as *Antique Olive Compact*), and ultra bold (known as *Nord*). The counters and bowls, especially the letter O, resemble an olive, which is one of the characteristics which make Excoffon's typefaces unique.

It was used for the logo for Air France from the 1960s until 2009, the *Sesame Street* ending credits from 1978 to 1983, logos for Walmart, and on Cartoon Network's *Ben 10: Alien Force* and *Ben 10: Ultimate Alien*.

Lewis Blackwell later commented on the design: "An attempt to offer a more refined sans serif than presented by Helvetica and Univers, but it was too characterful and too late to be widely adopted outside France."

The face was later made available in cold type and digital versions are now offered by Adobe Systems and Linotype. A limited set of styles digitized by URW++ are available with GhostPDL (part of the Ghostscript project) under the Aladdin Free Public License.

The font is also sold as a 13-member family called "Antigone" by SoftMaker.

Kontour Type designed the Utile typeface, inspired from the Antique Olive typeface.

Robert Huber designed the LL Moderne typeface, which is based on the Antique Olive typeface.

Everyday Sans, also based on Antique Olive, is a type family designed as a companion for Walmart's current logo and wordmark.
