# Antler_Peak_(Washington)

*[Voce originale su Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Antler_Peak_%28Washington%29)*

**Antler Peak** is a 7,017-foot (2,139-metre) summit located in Mount Rainier National Park in Pierce County of Washington state. It is part of the Sourdough Mountains, a subset of the Cascade Range. Antler Peak is situated west of Dege Peak and northeast of Sunrise Historic District, with the Sourdough Ridge Trail traversing the south slope of Antler between the two. Mount Fremont is the nearest higher peak, 1.55 mi (2.49 km) to the west. Precipitation runoff from Antler Peak drains into the White River.

## Climate

Antler Peak is located in the marine west coast climate zone of western North America. Most weather fronts originating in the Pacific Ocean travel northeast toward the Cascade Mountains. As fronts approach, they are forced upward by the peaks of the Cascade Range (Orographic lift), causing them to drop their moisture in the form of rain or snow onto the Cascades. As a result, the west side of the Cascades experiences high precipitation, especially during the winter months in the form of snowfall. Because of maritime influence, snow tends to be wet and heavy, resulting in high avalanche danger. During winter months, weather is usually cloudy, but due to high pressure systems over the Pacific Ocean that intensify during summer months, there is often little or no cloud cover during the summer.

## See also

* Mountains portal
* Geology of the Pacific Northwest

## Gallery
