# Antje_Baeumner

*[Voce originale su Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Antje_Baeumner)*

**Antje Baeumner** is a German chemist who is Professor and Director of the Institute of Analytical Chemistry, Chemo- and Biosensors at the University of Regensburg in Germany. Her research considers biosensors and lab-on-a-chip devices for the detection of pathogenic organisms.

## Early life and education

Baeumner was an undergraduate student at the Technical University of Braunschweig, where she studied biotechnology. She moved to the University of Stuttgart for graduate studies. In 1997 Baeumner moved to Cornell University as a postdoctoral fellow.

## Research and career

Baeumner joined the faculty at Cornell University in 1999, and was promoted to Professor in 2008. Her research considered biosensors for the detection of pathogenic organisms in food. Whilst at Cornell, she was awarded a Blavatnik Awards for Young Scientists. Baeumner was part of a Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation program to create low-cost HIV/AIDS diagnostic tools for use in the developing world. Specifically, Baeumner looked to develop a simple, low-cost approach to evaluate CD4+ T cell count in the blood, a marker of HIV/AIDS infection. CD4 counts can advise when to start and stop taking antiretroviral drugs. She created a pregnancy test-like device that makes use of biosensor nanovesicles to amplify the signal.

In 2007, Baeumner was awarded fellowships from the German Research Foundation and Alexander von Humboldt Foundation. She moved to the Institute of Analytical Sciences in Dortmund, where she spent a year developing microfluidic devices and strategies to image cancer cells *in vivo* using nanovesicles. She moved to the Institute of Analytical Chemistry, Chemo- and Biosensors at the University of Regensburg in Germany in 2013, where she studies biosensors and micro-total analysis systems (μ TAS) for the detection of pathogens in food.

Baeumner has served as Editor-in-Chief of *Analytical and Bioanalytical Chemistry* since 2019. Baeumner serves as President of the International Association of Environmental Analytical Chemistry.

## Selected publications

* Peter J Asiello; Antje J Baeumner (9 March 2011). "Miniaturized isothermal nucleic acid amplification, a review". *Lab on a Chip*. **11** (8): 1420–1430. doi:10.1039/C0LC00666A. ISSN 1473-0197. PMID 21387067. Wikidata Q37851033.
* Antje J Baeumner (12 August 2003). "Biosensors for environmental pollutants and food contaminants". *Analytical and Bioanalytical Chemistry*. **377** (3): 434–445. doi:10.1007/S00216-003-2158-9. ISSN 1618-2642. PMID 12920503. Wikidata Q35200612.
* Nongnoot Wongkaew; Marcel Simsek; Christian Griesche; Antje J Baeumner (24 September 2018). "Functional Nanomaterials and Nanostructures Enhancing Electrochemical Biosensors and Lab-on-a-Chip Performances: Recent Progress, Applications, and Future Perspective". *Chemical Reviews*. **119** (1): 120–194. doi:10.1021/ACS.CHEMREV.8B00172. ISSN 0009-2665. PMID 30247026. Wikidata Q57151285.
