# Antipodean_Film_Festival

*[Voce originale su Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Antipodean_Film_Festival)*

The **Antipodean Film Festival** (French: *Rencontres internationales du cinéma des Antipodes*), variously referred to as **Festival des Antipodes**, **Antipodes International Film Festival**, **Antipodes Film Festival Saint Tropez**, **Saint Tropez Film Festival** and other variations, is a film festival showcasing New Zealand and Australian films, held annually in St Tropez in France since 1999.

Most of the events take place at the Renaissance Cinema on Place des Lices in Saint Tropez. The event, which runs for three days, includes a Junior Antipodes section and a feature film competition.

The 2021 edition was given the label "Australia Now France 2021-2022", making it part of a celebration of many aspects of Australia in France which includes projects and collaborations throughout the country.

## Awards

Many prizes have been awarded since the second edition of the event in 2000. There were no awards given in 2001 or 2020. Former jury members include Bryan Brown, Stéphane Audran, Anthony La Paglia, Tina Arena, Phillip Noyce, Jean-Loup Dabadie, Bruce Beresford, Julie Ferrier, Greta Scacchi, Fred Schepisi, Miranda Otto, Nadia Tass, and many others.

### Grand Prix Best Feature Film

The Jury Grand Prix, Best Feature film (Le Grand Prix du Jury, Meilleur Long Métrage) was awarded in 2000, 2006–2019, and from 2021. The following films won the award:

* 2000: *Innocence* by Paul Cox – AUS; & *Ça ira mieux demain* by Jeanne Labrune - FR
  + Mention: *The Price of Milk* by Harry Sinclair – NZ
* 2006: *10 Canoes* by Rolf De Heer – AUS
* 2007: *Lucky Miles* by Michael James Rowland – AUS
  + Mention: *Noise* by Matthew Saville - AUS
* 2008: *The Bet* by Mark Lee – AUS
* 2009: *Samson and Delilah* by Warwick Thornton – AUS
* 2010: *Beautiful Kate* by Rachel Ward – AUS
* 2011: *Lou* by Belinda Chayko – AUS
* 2012: *The King Is Dead!* by Rolf De Heer – AUS
* 2013: *How to Meet Girls from a Distance* by Dean Hewison – NZ
  + Mention: *Mystery Road* by Ivan Sen – AUS
* 2014: *Canopy* by Aaron Wilson - AUS
* 2015: *The Dark Horse* by James Napier Robertson - NZ
* 2016: *Pawno* by Paul Ireland - AUS
* 2017: *Jasper Jones* by Rachel Perkins - AUS
  + Mention: *The Pā Boys* by Himiona Grace - NZ
* 2018:*West of Sunshine* by Jason Raftopoulos - AUS
* 2019: *Waru* by Ainsley Gardiner, Casey Kaa, Renae Maihi, Awanui Simich-Pene, Briar Grace-Smith, Paula Whetu Jones, Chelsea Winstanley, Katie Wolfe - NZ
  + Mention: *Brothers' Nest* by Clayton Jacobson
* 2020: No jury
* 2021: *Bellbird* by Hamish Bennett - NZ
* 2022: *The Drover's Wife* by Leah Purcell - AUS
* 2023: *Limbo* by Ivan Sen - AUS & *Millie Lies Low* by Michelle Savill - NZ

### Best Actor

Best Actor (Meilleur Acteur) was created in 2001.

### Best Actress

Best Actress (Meilleur Actrice) was created in 2001.

### Audience Award

The Audience Award for Best Feature Film (Prix du Public, du Meilleur Long Métrage) has been awarded since 2000. The winners of this prize include:

* 2000 : *The Monkey's Mask* by Samantha Lang - AUS
* 2001 : No award
* 2002 : *Beneath Clouds* by Ivan Sen - AUS
* 2003 : *Horseplay* by Stavros Kazantzidis - AUS
* 2004 : *Fracture* by Larry Parr - NZ
* 2005 : *Oyster Farmer* by Anna Reeves & *The Climb* by Bob Swaim – AUS / NZ
* 2006 : *Number 2* by Toa Frazer - NZ
* 2007 : *Clubland* by Cherie Nowland - AUS
* 2008 : *Black Balloon* by Elissa Down - AUS
* 2009 : *The Strength of Water* by Armağan Ballantyne - NZ
* 2010 : *The Waiting City* by Claire McCarthy - AUS
* 2011 : *Face to Face* by Michael Rymer – AUS
* 2012 : *Red Dog* by Kriv Stenders – AUS
* 2013 : *Last Dance* by David Pulbrook – AUS
* 2014 : *Healing* by Craig Monahan – AUS
* 2015 : *Paper Planes* by Robert Connolly - AUS
* 2016 : *Last Cab to Darwin* by Jeremy Sims - AUS
* 2017 : *Jasper Jones* by Rachel Perkins - AUS
  + Mention : *The Pā Boys* by Himiona Grace - NZ
* 2018 : *Three Wise Cousins* by Stallone Vaiaoga-Ioasa - NZ
* 2019 : *Ladies in Black* by Bruce Beresford - AUS
* 2020 : No award
* 2021 : *High Ground* by Stephen M. Johnson - AUS
* 2022 : *How to Please a Woman* by Renée Webster - AUS
* 2023 : *Sweet As* by Jub Clerc - AUS

### Nicholas Baudin Award, Best Short Film

Best Short Film (Prix du Meilleur Court Métrage) was awarded in 2000. There was no award for a short film in 2001. The Nicholas Baudin Award/ Nicholas Baudin Prize, (Prix Nicolas Baudin, Meilleur Court Métrage) has been awarded each year since 2002, named in honour of French explorer Nicholas Baudin. As of 2024 it is supported by the Woodside Valley Foundation.

### 20th Anniversary Award

The 20th Anniversary Award for Best Antipodes' Short Film (Prix du 20ème anniversaire pour le meilleur court métrage des Antipodes) was awarded to *The Virgin*, made by Jack Yabsley.

### Audience Award, Short Film

The Audience Award, Australian Short Film Today (Prix du Public, Australian Short Film Today) has been awarded since 2020, but there was no award in 2023.
