# Antirrhinum_controversum

*[Voce originale su Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Antirrhinum_controversum)*

***Antirrhinum controversum*** is a species of perennial flowering plant in the genus *Antirrhinum* (common snapdragons) in the family Plantaginaceae. Native to southeastern and southern Spain, Portugal, and northern Morocco, it is a subshrub that favors subtropical biomes. The species produces stems that grow between 35 cm (14 in) and 150 cm (59 in) tall. Growing, flowering, and fruiting between February and November within its native range, the plant produces dense inflorescences of ten to 40 pale-pink flowers at the end of each stem.

## Description

*Antirrhinum controversum* is a perennial herbaceous plant species in the genus *Antirrhinum* (common snapdragons) of the family Plantaginaceae. The overall forms of *A. controversum* plants are that of subshrubs. Plants in the species produce thick aerial stems that reach between 35 cm (14 in) and 150 cm (59 in) tall. Leaves grow in a mostly alternating pattern on the stems. These leaves are lanceolate in shape, with the typical *Antirrhinum* coloring of green on their topsides and purple on their bottoms, and measure between 6 mm (0.24 in) and 40 mm (1.6 in) long and between 0.5 mm (0.020 in) and 6 mm (0.24 in) wide.

The inflorescences on *Antirrhinum* grow at the terminuses of the stems. On *A. controversum*, ten to 40 flowers densely populate each inflorescence. The flowers are attached to the stem on pedicels measuring between 1 mm (0.039 in) and 3 mm (0.12 in) long and are arranged in an alternating pattern. The flowers are postured in an erect position. The entire structure of each flower (*corolla*) measures 16 mm (0.63 in) to 24 mm (0.94 in) in diameter. The flowers are colored pale pink, with a white base on the tubular portion attached to the pedicel. Purple veins are also present. The growth period that includes flowering and fruiting occurs between February and November within the species's native range.

Fruiting produces oblong-ovoid capsules that measure 6 mm (0.24 in) to 9 mm (0.35 in) long and 4 m (160 in) to 5 mm (0.20 in) wide. These capsules have woody walls with glandular hairs that can measure up to 0.6 mm (0.024 in) long. The seeds are black and oblong-ovoid in shape, measuring between 0.6 mm (0.024 in) and 0.8 mm (0.031 in) long.

Within *Antirrhinum*, hybridization between species is frequent. Standard *A. controversum* plants are morphologically similar to typical *A. australe* plants, with naturally occurring hybridizations between the two species compounding the difficulty of distinguishing between them.

## Taxonomy

In 1896 within the journal *Notas Botánicas a la Flora Española*, the Spanish botanist Carlos Pau y Español reevaluated *Antirrhinum* specimens. The specimens included some he had previously identified as *Antirrhinum barrelieri* as well as other specimens from across a wider Iberian range. Pau decided that *A. barrelieri* –  a name previously applied to morphologically similar populations from across the eastern and southern portions of the Iberian Peninsula –  should be divided into two species. Pau described the northeastern Iberian Peninsula plants with the new name *A. litigiosum*, while southern Iberian plants were described as *A. controversum*. This initial description of *A. controversum*, utilizing specimens collected by Pietro Porta and Gregorio Rigo, described distinctions between this species and other *Antirrhinum*.

In 1956, the German botanist Werner Rothmaler assessed Pau's names and held that the northern populations should be considered *A. litigiosum* (also called *A. majus* subsp. *litigiosum* by other authors) and the southern populations were *A. barrelieri*. The *Flora Iberica*, accepting Rothmaler's 1956 assessment of the genus for other taxa, retained *A. controversum* for the southeastern Iberian plants and deemed the name *A. barrelieri* as the cause of confusion.

A 2020 typification by the Spanish botanists P. Pablo Ferrer-Gallego and Jaime Güemes compared Pau's descriptions and assignments for *A. litigiosum* and *A. controversum* against earlier descriptions and assignments to *A. barrelieri*. Ferrer-Gallego and Güemes determined that, according to Boreau's original description of *Antirrhinum barrelieri* and the standards of the *International Code of Nomenclature for algae, fungi, and plants*, *A. litigiosum* was a synonym of *A. barrelieri* but accepted *A. controversum* as a discrete taxa that applied to the southern Iberian populations.

### Cladistic relationships

The boundaries of the genus *Antirrhinum* (common snapdragons) are disputed. The genus is sometimes considered to comprise a clade (monophyletic group) that spans a concentration of approximately 19 to 25 perennial species natively concentrated in the Western Mediterranean –  with most of these narrowly endemic to the Iberian Peninsula –  and approximately 19 annual species native to western North America. When the Old and New World species has been considered as a single genus, it has divided into three sections: *Antirrhinum* and *Orontium* in the Old World and *Saerorhinum* in the New World. However, the North American species are sometimes described as belong in their own genus, *Sairocarpus*.

The genus *Antirrhinum*, when restricted to only to the Old World, comprises diploid (chromosome number: 2*n*=16) species that have been divided into two genetic species complexes: *Majora* (headed by *Antirrhinum majus*) and *Sicula* (headed by *Antirrhinum siculum*). A 2005 genetic study concluded that sufficient allozymic differentiation existed to accept the plants now referred to as *A. barrelieri* (identified as *A. litigiosum* in the study) and *A. controversum* (identified as *A. barrelieri* in the study) at the rank of species. This study placed both species within the *Majora* group.

The Old World *Antirrhinum* species can also be divided in subsections based on morphology. *Antirrhinum* subsection *Antirrhinum* comprises large plants generally found in competitive grassland environments that usually possess pink or yellow flowers and large leaves. *Antirrhinum* subsection *Kickxiella* encompasses smaller, typically alpine plants with small leaves. The small *Streptosepalum* subsection comprises plants morphologically intermediary between *Antirrhinum* and *Kickxiella*. A 2021 genetic study identified *A. controversum* (identified as *A. barrelieri* in the study) as morphologically within the subsection *Antirrhinum* but concluded that a phylogeny based on genetic evidence suggested clades comprised species of varied morphologies within geographic proximity to one another. The study determined that, consistent with the frequent hybridization within the genus, the *A. controversum* from the Sierra Nevada had more closely related genetic accessions with the Sierra Nevada *Kickxiella* species than the Sierra Nevada and Moroccan *A. controversum* had between each other.

## Distribution

*Antirrhinum controversum* has a native range that spans southeastern and southern Spain, Portugal, and northern Morocco. The species favors subtropical biomes. *A. controversum* is natively found at elevations between 20 m (66 ft) and 1,600 m (5,200 ft) above sea level.
