# Antoaneta_Tsankova

*[Voce originale su Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Antoaneta_Tsankova)*

**Antoaneta Tsankova** (Bulgarian: Антоанета Цанкова; born 18 September 2011) is a Bulgarian rhythmic gymnast. She represents Bulgaria in international competitions.

## Career

Tsankova took up the sport when she was six years old. In 2023 she won gold in the All-Around among pre juniors at the Bulgarian Championships, repeating the result with ball and with clubs, winning a silver medal with ribbon as well. In October she was selected to integrate the national team.

The following year she won silver at the national clubs championships, representing Avangard with Svetlizara Petkova and Yuliana Dimitrova. In April she competed out of competition at the 2024 Sofia Cup. Later that year she took bronze at nationals, behind Alexandra Petrova and Siyana Alekova. In June she was confirmed into the national team. That year she also won two silver and one bronze medals at the Balkan Games.

In 2025 she was 5th with ball and won gold with hoop at the Bosphorus Cup. At the Sofia Cup she won gold in teams, as part of "Bulgaria 1", as well as in the clubs final. On May 1–4, she competed at European Cup Baku and won gold medal in team (with Aleksa Rasheva and Magdalena Valkova) and with clubs. At the stage in her native Burgas she was 4th with ball and again won gold in teams, with Valokova and Anastasia Kaleva. She then was crowned vice champion of Bulgaria, winning gold with clubs. At the Balkan Championships she took gold with clubs. In December she topped the All-Around among juniors at the "Christmas Stars" tournament.

In late January 2026 she took 4th place at the first national control training, behind Dea Emilova, Viktoria Lilkina and Siyana Alekova.

## Routine music information

| Year | Apparatus | Music title |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 2026 | Hoop | Amma (feat. Sivamani) James Asher |
| Ball | Amore cannibale by Gianna Nannini |
| Clubs |  |
| Ribbon |  |
| 2025 | Hoop | Time to Go Crazy by Rishi & Harshil |
| Ball | Amore cannibale by Gianna Nannini |
| Clubs | Emergency by Icona Pop |
| Ribbon | Slavic Queen by Filip Lackovic |
