# Antisemitism_during_the_2026_Iran_war

*[Voce originale su Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Antisemitism_during_the_2026_Iran_war)*

During the 2026 Iran war, which began on 28 February 2026, when the United States and Israel engaged in a war with Iran and its regional allies, antisemitic incidents increased worldwide. Many of the incidents, including a wave of attacks in London in March-April 2026, were claimed by Harakat Ashab al-Yamin al-Islamia, which is believed to be a front group for Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps, who had outsourced the acts to local criminals and used the group to create plausible deniability, as a form of hybrid warfare.

## Globally

Combat Antisemitism Movement’s (CAM) Antisemitism Research Center documented an increase in 34% in antisemitic incidents in the week following the beginning of the war. The report indicated that close to half of those cases (73 out of 154) were directly tied to the war. These included threats, violence, and conspiracy theories blaming Jews for the war.

## Europe

### Belgium

On 9 March 2026, the *Synagogue de Liège* was damaged by an explosion. While no one was hurt, windows of the synagogue and a nearby building were damaged. Authorities started a federal investigation into what they characterized as an antisemitic incident. Liège mayor Willy Demeyer described the blast as an antisemitic act and stated, “We cannot allow foreign conflicts to be imported into our city.”

On 24 March 2026, a car was set on fire in Antwerp’s Jewish quarter, in what Belgian authorities suspect to be an antisemitic attack. Two minors were arrested. While an Iran‑aligned militant collective called Harakat Ashab al‑Yamin al‑Islamia claimed responsibility for the attack, authorities are still investigating.

### Germany

On 10 April 2026, unidentified individuals threw suspected pyrotechnic devices into an Israeli restaurant in Munich, shattering windows and causing damage estimated to be of several thousand euros. No one was injured as the incident happened at around 00:45 local time. Authorities “believe an antisemitic motive prompted vandalism.”

The *Independent* also reported that German police were investigating an antisemitic motive and added that the attack took place amid heightened tensions linked to the Middle East conflict involving Iran.

### Netherlands

On 13 March 2026, an attack damaged a synagogue on A.B.N. Davidsplein in Rotterdam. While no injuries were reported, the explosion did cause a fire. International outlets reported about the incident as part of several suspected antisemitic attacks following the outbreak of the Iran war.

On 14 March 2026, a Jewish school in Amsterdam was damaged by an explosion, characterised by the city's mayor Femke Halsema as "a deliberate attack against the Jewish community". She also stated that "Jewish people in Amsterdam are increasingly confronted with antisemitism. This is unacceptable.” This incident was reported alongside the incidents Rotterdam and Liège targeting Jewish institutions following the outbreak of the Iran war.

On 4 April 2026, the 'Israel Center' in Nijkerk was damaged by an explosion. No individual was hurt. Police said that no arrests were made thus far. *Christians for Israel*, the organisation who operates the targeted building, said that this incident “is also a stark reminder of the growing unease felt by Jewish communities in the Netherlands and around the world. We are seeing a troubling rise in threats and intimidation directed at the Jewish people.” Associated Press and AFP mentioned that similar incidents took place in Europe. CBS News reported that such attacks raised concerns about antisemitism following the outbreak of the Iran war.

### United Kingdom

On 24 March 2026, four ambulances belonging to Hatzola, a Jewish emergency medical service, were set on fire in Golders Green, London. Metropolitan Police chief Sir Mark Rowley said that officers were investigating the possibility that a group linked to the Iranian government could be behind the attack. The group Harakat Ashab al-Yamin al-Islamia claimed responsibility, but police have not yet confirmed the veracity of their statement. British Prime Minister, Keir Starmer, called this incident a “deeply shocking antisemitic arson attack. Two UK nationals were arrested in relation to the attack. They were released on bail. In June, Britain’s Crown Prosecution Service announced that an 18-year-old British national was charged in connection with the arson, bringing to five the number of people arrested for the attack.

Further incidents took place in London in April and May 2026, including arson and attempted arson of synagogues and Jewish-linked property and community organisations in Finchley, Hendon and Harrow. Some of these incidents were investigated as antisemitic hate crimes and counter-terrorism authorities were sometimes involved.

On 29 April, a man ran along Golders Green Road attempting to stab Jewish passers‑by. He managed to stab Shloime Rand, 34, and Moshe Shine, 76. Both victims were treated at the scene and taken to hospital. Prime Minister Keir Starmer condemned the "antisemitic attack" as "utterly appalling". The 45‑year‑old assailant was detained by Shomrim volunteers before being arrested by police. The Iran-linked group Harakat Ashab al-Yamin al-Islamia claimed responsibility for the attack.

On 18 May, London’s Metropolitan Police said an alleged assault on a Jewish man in Golders Green early that morning was being being treated as an antisemitic hate crime. The victim, who was treated for wounds, had told police he was attacked by a group of men shouting in Arabic after they overheard him speaking Hebrew.

## North America

### Canada

On March 2 at about 10:49 p.m., gunshots were fired towards Temple Emanu-El synagogue in Toronto. While no injuries were reported, the window of the building was damaged in what the authorities described as a targeted hate-related act.

On March 6–7, the glass doors of Beth Avraham Yoseph Modern Orthodox synagogue in Thornhill were shot at. At around the same time, another synagogue, Shaarei Shomayim, was damaged from multiple bullet holes found in the front doors during an overnight shooting by an unidentified individual.

### United States

On March 5, 2026, activists staged a performance on Pennsylvania Avenue near the White House in Washington, D.C., depicting figures representing Benjamin Netanyahu, Donald Trump, and Jeffrey Epstein consuming a mock infant. According to *The Times of Israel*, the display was described as invoking the antisemitic “blood libel” trope, and included banners referencing the “Zionist World Plan” and a “pedophile blackmail dinner.” The Jewish Community Relations Council of Greater Washington characterised it as 'a sickening display of full-throated antisemitism', whereas the American Jewish Committee said 'Blood libel was on full display today at Union Station in Washington, D.C. ... this was nothing less than the revival of one of the oldest and most dangerous antisemitic tropes in history.' In an opinion piece for the *Washington Jewish Week*, Pamela S. Nadell wrote that images of leaders consuming “blood and organs” echo the medieval blood libel.

On March 8, two men speaking in Hebrew in a Santana Row restaurant, San Jose, California, were violently assaulted. The attacker allegedly shouted at them "*don't mess with Iran*" and antisemitic slurs. Video footage showed the victims being punched and kicked in an incident investigated as a possible antisemitic hate crime.

On March 12, a Lebanese-American man rammed a vehicle into Temple Israel, a Reform Jewish synagogue in West Bloomfield Township, Michigan, causing the vehicle to catch fire and igniting smoke inside the building. Security personnel shot and killed the attacker. A security guard was injured after he was hit by the vehicle and at least 30 law‑enforcement officers were hospitalized for smoke inhalation. The incident is being investigating as a targeted act of violence against the Jewish community.

In April, a teen in Texas was charged with allegedly conspiring with two men to attack a Houston synagogue to "kill as many Jews as possible."

### Online antisemitism

On 4 March 2026, American right-wing political commentator Candace Owens made several posts on X, including a reshared AI-generated image of US President Trump with Israeli flags.

CyberWell said antisemitic tropes and the Zionist Occupied Government (ZOG) conspiracy theory had been published on social media during the war, claiming that Israel secretly controls the U.S. government. CAM’s Antisemitism Research Center also reported the circulation of antisemitic posts on social media using traditional antisemitic tropes and imagery.

One example presented by CyberWell and Combat Antisemitism Movement is the AI-generated song *"Boom Boom Tel Aviv"*, that had originally been released online and gained popularity around the time of the 12‑day war in 2025 which saw massive resurgence after the war started, both offline and offline. According to these platforms, the widespread streaming of this song was perceived to be a part of the broader surge in antisemitism.

## See also

* New antisemitism
* Timeline of antisemitism in the 21st century
* Antisemitism during the Gaza war
* Antisemitism by country
* 2026 Iranian diaspora protests § Violence towards diaspora protesters
