# Still_Rolling_Stones

*[Voce originale su Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Still_Rolling_Stones)*

"**Still Rolling Stones**" is a song performed by American contemporary Christian singer and songwriter Lauren Daigle. The song was written by Daigle, Paul Mabury, Jason Ingram, and Paul Duncan. "Still Rolling Stones" is the fourth single from her third studio album *Look Up Child*.

## Background

Daigle initially released "Still Rolling Stones" as the first promotional single on August 10, 2018. It is also the first track on the album. Lauren describes the track,"'Still Rolling Stones' will be the first track on the new album, because it makes a statement. 'Out of the shadows...' will be the first line you hear when you start to play *Look Up Child*. It's all about the things we think are dead, and a reminder that all losses can be revived. They can all come back. The track is at times wild, vibrant, and loud. Then it sounds rich & soulful – giving you a glimpse into what is to be expected on the album."

"Still Rolling Stones" impacted Christian radio on April 10, 2020, as the fourth single from *Look Up Child*.

## Composition

"Still Rolling Stones" is originally in the key of E minor, with a tempo of 99 beats per minute. Written in common time, Daigle's vocal range spans from D4 to C5 during the song.

## Critical reception

Brandon J. from *Indie Vision Music* wrote "This song truly captures her talent and showcases an artist on the rise. Her voice captures the heart of the song and proves that “worship” doesn’t have to be a mundane, stale, and overrated “Christian” term."

## Commercial performance

It debuted at No. 17 on the *Billboard* Christian Songs chart on the issue week of August 25, 2018. After the release of *Look Up Child*, it jumped to No. 16. After being premiered on *The Ellen DeGeneres Show*, it reached No. 11 on its twelfth week on the chart. It has since peaked at No. 4.

## Credits and personnel

Credits adapted from Tidal.

* Lauren Daigle – vocals, songwriter
* Jason Ingram – songwriter
* Paul Duncan – songwriter
* Joe La Porta – mastering engineer

## Live performances

Daigle performed the song on television for the first time on *The Ellen DeGeneres Show*. She also performed the track on *Late Night with Seth Meyers* on October 7, 2019.

## Music video

The official music video for the single was released on May 23, 2020. The video for “Still Rolling Stones” features never-before-seen footage taken from Daigle’s first arena tour, the *Lauren Daigle World Tour*, which was cut short, due to the COVID-19 pandemic. According to *CCM Magazine* "It captures Daigle’s infectious personality and clearly shows the passion and love that she has for performing in front of a live audience".

Daigle reflected on the music video saying "I miss performing live. The arena tour was something that we worked so hard to put together and couldn’t have been happier about it—especially seeing how everyone was responding. So, we thought it’d be really great to put this out, not only to show how much fun we have when we’re playing live, but to be able to give fans something a little different. Just know that we’re looking forward to being back on the road!"

## Charts

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Weekly charts  Weekly chart performance for "Still Rolling Stones"  | Chart (2018–20) | Peak position | | --- | --- | | UK *Cross Rhythms* Weekly Chart | 1 | | US Hot Christian Songs (*Billboard*) | 4 | | US Christian Airplay (*Billboard*) | 5 | | US Christian AC (*Billboard*) | 4 | | Year-end charts  2018 year-end chart performance for "Still Rolling Stones"  | Chart (2018) | Peak position | | --- | --- | | UK *Cross Rhythms* Annual Chart | 3 | | US Christian Songs (*Billboard*) | 47 |  2019 year-end chart performance for "Still Rolling Stones"  | Chart (2019) | Position | | --- | --- | | US Christian Songs (*Billboard*) | 79 |  2020 year-end chart performance for "Still Rolling Stones"  | Chart (2020) | Position | | --- | --- | | US Christian Songs (*Billboard*) | 26 | | US Christian Airplay (*Billboard*) | 26 | | US Christian AC (*Billboard*) | 16 | |

## Certifications

| Region | Certification | Certified units/sales |
| --- | --- | --- |
| United States (RIAA) | Platinum | 1,000,000‡ |
| ‡ Sales+streaming figures based on certification alone. | | |

## Release history

| Region | Date | Format | Label | Ref. |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| United States | April 10, 2020 | Christian radio | Centricity |  |
