# Still_(Bill_Anderson_album)

*[Voce originale su Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Still_%28Bill_Anderson_album%29)*

***Still*** is a studio album by American country singer-songwriter Bill Anderson. It was released on June 17, 1963 on Decca Records and was produced by Owen Bradley. *Still* was Anderson's debut studio album as a recording artist after recording several singles for the Decca label. Two singles were included in the album. Its most successful was the title track, which became a crossover hit in 1963. It reached positions on the *Billboard* country, pop and adult contemporary charts. The album itself would also reach peak position on *Billboard* charts.

## Background and content

By 1963, Bill Anderson had been recording for Decca Records for five years. He signed with the label in 1958 and recorded several hits, including "The Tip of My Fingers" and "Mama Sang a Song". However, a proper debut studio album by Anderson had not yet been released. With the success of the title track in 1963, Decca decided to release his first full-length studio effort. The album's recording sessions were compiled from 1961. Further sessions were added on through early 1963. Sessions were first held at the Columbia Recording Studio in 1961 and were later held at Bradley's Barn, all located in Nashville, Tennessee. The album's recordings were produced by Owen Bradley, whom Anderson had been working with since his original signing.

*Still* consisted of 12 tracks. Five of the album's songs were written or co-written by Anderson, including the title track. Additional tracks were composed by other artists and songwriters. Further writers on the project included Ned Miller, Ernest Tubb and Fred Rose. Also included were cover versions of songs first recorded by others. These tracks were "From a Jack to a King", "Take These Chains from My Heart", "Little Band of Gold", "The Reverend Mr. Black", "It's Been So Long Darling" and "Down Came the Rain".

## Release and reception

Professional ratings

| Review scores | |
| --- | --- |
| Source | Rating |
| *Allmusic* |  |

Before the album's release the first single was issued in February 1962. The single, "Get a Little Dirt on Your Hands", peaked at number 14 on the *Billboard* country singles chart. The second single issued was the title track in February 1963. It became Anderson's second single to reach number one on the *Billboard* country singles chart, reaching the top spot in April 1963. It also crossed over to the Hot 100 where it became a major hit and peaked at number eight in June 1963. It also reached a top ten position on the *Billboard* adult contemporary chart, peaking at number three.

*Still* was later given 3.5 stars from Allmusic in their review of the album. *Still* was originally released on June 17, 1963 via Decca Records. The album was first issued as a vinyl record, containing six songs on side one and six songs on side two. Upon its release, *Still* peaked at number ten on the *Billboard* Top Country Albums chart, becoming his first album to place on this chart. It also reach a peak position on the Billboard 200 album chart, reaching number 36 in September 1963. It would be Anderson's only studio release to make an appearance on the latter chart.

## Track listing

Side one

| No. | Title | Writer(s) | Length |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1. | "Still" | Bill Anderson | 2:51 |
| 2. | "Little Band of Gold" | James Gilreath | 2:44 |
| 3. | "Down Came the Rain" | Eddie Miller | 2:50 |
| 4. | "From a Jack to a King" | Ned Miller | 2:20 |
| 5. | "Molly" | Steve Karliski | 3:00 |
| 6. | "Get a Little Dirt on Your Hands" | Anderson | 2:56 |

Side two

| No. | Title | Writer(s) | Length |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1. | "Restless" | * Anderson * Skeeter Davis | 2:51 |
| 2. | "It's Been So Long Darling" | Ernest Tubb | 2:49 |
| 3. | "The Reverend Mr. Black" | * Billy Edd Wheeler * Jerry Leiber * Mike Stoller | 3:23 |
| 4. | "Take These Chains from My Heart" | * Hy Heath * Fred Rose | 2:45 |
| 5. | "Happiness" | Anderson | 2:17 |
| 6. | "I Wish I Was Mine" | Anderson | 2:37 |

## Personnel

All credits are adapted from the liner notes of *Still*.

**Musical personnel**

|  |  |
| --- | --- |
| * Bill Anderson – lead vocals * Brenton Banks – strings * Harold Bradley – guitar * George Brinkley – strings * Cecil Brower – strings * Howard Carpenter – strings * Martin Catahn – strings * Floyd Cramer – piano * Pete Drake – steel guitar * Ray Edenton – guitar * Sofie Fott – strings | * Buddy Harman – drums * Lillian Hunt – strings * Tommy Jackson – fiddle * The Jordanaires – background vocals * Jerry Kennedy – guitar * The Anita Kerr Singers – background vocals * Grady Martin – guitar * Bill McElhiney – trumpet * Bob Moore – bass * Morris Palmer – drums * Joe Zinkan – bass |

**Technical personnel**

* Owen Bradley – record producer
* Hal Buksbaum – photography

## Chart performance

| Chart (1963) | Peak  position |
| --- | --- |
| US *Billboard* 200 | 36 |
| US Top Country Albums (*Billboard*) | 10 |

## Release history

| Region | Date | Format | Label | Ref. |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| United States | June 17, 1963 | Vinyl | Decca |  |
