# Still_There

*[Voce originale su Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Still_There)*

***Still There*** is a 2019 point-and-click adventure video game developed by GhostShark Games and published by Iceberg Interactive.

## Gameplay and story

*Still There* is a sci-fi psychological point-and-click adventure video game. The game tells the story of Karl, the keeper of the Bento space-lighthouse.
His job requires him to live in almost total isolation, performing routine maintenance and screening radio broadcasts, until the monotony is broken by a mysterious help request.

The gameplay is based on challenging technical puzzles that must be solved using the spaceship manual and the help of an in-board AI.
The story tackles difficult themes as grief and loss.

## Development and release

*Still There* was developed by four people: Davide Barbieri (GhostShark Games), Daniele Giardini (Demigiant), Gaetano Leonardi (La Boite) and Ben Burnes (Abstraction Music).
The engine used to develop the game was Unity 3D.

*Still There* was announced on 8 August 2019.
and showcased at Gamescom on 22 August 2019.
The game was published by Iceberg Interactive and released for Windows, macOS and Nintendo Switch on 20 November 2019.

## Reception

Reception

Aggregate score

| Aggregator | Score |
| --- | --- |
| Metacritic | 77/100 |

*Still There* received "generally favorable" reviews from critics according to review aggregator Metacritic
and it is considered "strong" from critics according to review aggregator OpenCritic.
