# Still_Life_(poetry_collection)

*[Voce originale su Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Still_Life_%28poetry_collection%29)*

***Still Life*** is a 2022 poetry collection by Jay Hopler. It was a finalist for the 2023 Pulitzer Prize for Poetry and was longlisted for the 2022 National Book Award for Poetry.

## Background

In 2017, Hopler was diagnosed with terminal prostate cancer; he was told that he had only two years to live, after which he challenged himself "to write a book in twenty-four months." From then on, as he lived with his condition, he began writing the poems that would be collected in *Still Life*; his wife, Kimberly Johnson, would also write her own poetry collection, *Fatal*, about the diagnosis, which would also be released in 2022.

In three sections, the poems in *Still Life* address Hopler's diagnosis, his Puerto Rican heritage, and other topics including a "duet" with Johnny Cash and various allusions to animals. The book ends with a self-obituary. Hopler passed in 2022 one week after the book's publication. In *The Rumpus* that November, Johnson wrote:

> "Even before, but pronouncedly after, Jay's diagnosis, he and I spoke often about what it means to write a last book, to produce a poetic artifact that endures beyond the self. What poetry can offer in the way of immortality. And what it can't."

## Critical reception

*Time* included the book in their list of 100 must-reads for 2022, stating that "In the wake of a terminal cancer diagnosis, poet Jay Hopler pondered his own mortality with wit, searing insight, and a clear-eyed sense of courage".

Critics admired Hopler's reflections on mortality laden with humor. *River Mouth Review* observed the book's duality: "*Still Life* is a disconcerting book in the same way memorial services can be disconcerting: mourners go from making crass, perhaps even cruel jokes in each other’s ears to breaking down in tears and locking themselves in the restroom." *Blackbird* similarly said that "Hopler’s work has always been marked by self-deprecating humor—a lamentation of a tortured existence and a resentment for having been born at all—and this characteristic pinnacles in *Still Life*." *Poetry International Online* said "The book seems to be both a representation of all the moving parts of *the dying*, as well as an antithesis to how we usually converse about death, namely a dying person." *The Rumpus* concluded, "What else can I feel but humility and admiration for these poems, which grieve and celebrate a life with so much care?"
