# Still_Life_with_Ghosts

*[Voce originale su Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Still_Life_with_Ghosts)*

***Still Life with Ghosts*** (Spanish: ***Bodegón con fantasmas***) is a 2024 Spanish-Serbian ensemble comedy film written and directed by Enrique Buleo.

## Plot

Structured in five episodes, the plot follows the mishaps of townsfolk and ghosts in a village of La Mancha.

## Cast

* Consuelo Trujillo
* Fernando Sansegundo
* Enric Benavent
* Gloria Martínez
* Eduardo Antuña
* Patty Bonet
* Cristina García
* Pilar Matas
* Bianca Kovacs
* Nuria Mencía
* Jordi Aguilar
* José Carabias

## Production

A Spanish-Serbian co-production, the film was produced by Quatre Films alongside Cuidado con el perro, Sideral, and This and That. Shooting locations in the province of Cuenca included Villanueva de la Jara, El Picazo, Casasimarro, Iniesta and Almodóvar del Pinar. Filming also took place in Castellón and Valencia.

## Release

Sideral acquired Spanish distribution rights to the film in advance of the film's release. The film had its world premiere at the 57th Sitges Film Festival on 7 October 2024. Its festival run also included selections for screenings at the 26th Abycine Albacete Independent Film Festival, the Gijón International Film Festival, and the Warsaw International Film Festival. It was released theatrically in Spain on 7 February 2025.

## Reception

Júlia Olmo of *Cineuropa* deemed *Still Life with Ghosts* to be "a film full of humour, an irregular film, at times bold and captivating, and at others too hackneyed".

## Accolades

| Year | Award | Category | Nominee(s) | Result | Ref. |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 2025 | 12th Feroz Awards | Best Comedy Film | | Nominated |  |
| 7th Lola Gaos Awards | Best Film | | Nominated |  |
| Best Screenplay | Enrique Buleo | Nominated |
| Best Actress | Pilar Matas | Nominated |
| Best Art Direction | Lucía de Lope | Nominated |
| Best Sound | José Manuel Sospedra, Martin Touron | Nominated |
| Best Original Song | "Te Jubesk Din Injima Mja" by Dejan Pejovic | Nominated |

## See also

* List of Spanish films of 2025
