# Still_Life_with_Husband

*[Voce originale su Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Still_Life_with_Husband)*

***Still Life with Husband*** is a novel by Lauren Fox. It was published by Knopf Publishers on February 7, 2007. It is the author's first novel. *Publishers Weekly* described the book as "chick lit for early marrieds".

Claudia Deane of *The Washington Post* describes the story arc as the main character entering a "slippery slope". The main character, Emily Ross, living in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, is not sure whether she wants to stay married to her husband, who wants to move to a suburban area and start a family, or whether to pursue a relationship with another man, David Keller.

*Kirkus Reviews* describes Emily as "a banally self-centered character." *Publishers Weekly* stated that the main character has "a decidedly entitled, gee-whiz quality" which a person who has prior experience with romantic relations may find difficult to tolerate. Writer Sharon Pomerantz stated that the author "assumes real intelligence" in the book's audience.

## Background

The author attended the University of Minnesota and, in 1998, received a Master of Fine Arts (MFA) from that institution.

## Reception

Michiko Kakutani wrote that the work is "the debut of a delightful new voice in American fiction".

Pomerantz stated that she perceived of the book's ending as "a complete surprise". *Kirkus Reviews* stated that the book has "Lots of admirable writing". *Publishers Weekly* stated that the book is "adroit but placid".
