# Get Acquainted Vol. 1

*[Voce originale su Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Get_Acquainted_Vol._1)*

***Get Acquainted*** is a CD compilation of rare material of horror punk, alternative rock, garage rock, stoner rock and heavy metal bands. It was released in 2008 with the German book *Metall macht Musik*, illustrated by Tim Eckhorst and published by TheNextArt).

Among others, the CD features previously unreleased songs by ex-Misfits-singer Michale Graves and his band Gotham Road. Those songs were made available on a factory pressed CD for the first time.

The album also contains three songs by American horror punk group Blitzkid.

## Track listing

1. Gotham Road – "On My Way"
2. Brazen Angel – "What's Out There"
3. April Fool – "Less You Talk"
4. Die Bilderwelten – "Hausarrest"
5. Elektrohahn und die Legebatterie – "The People of Santa Fée"
6. Elektrohahn und die Legebatterie – "H.A.N.F."
7. Grid Iron – "Second Song"
8. Brazen Angel – "For the World"
9. Strange Heart – "Alone in the Dark"
10. Butterfinger – "Fall (Rock Remix)"
11. Apiskuko – "I Feel Alive"
12. Apiskuko – "Walk Away"
13. Blind Fury – "This Is Life"
14. Janus – "Sour Wine"
15. Gotham Road – "Say Something"
16. Michale Graves – "Shoestring (Acoustic Demo)"
17. Michale Graves – "Casket (Acoustic Demo)"
18. Blitzkid – "I'm a Zombie"
19. Blitzkid – "Hate You Better"
20. Blitzkid – "Ad Nauseum [*sic*] Memorie (live)"
21. Peter Carr – "Insanity"
22. Silent Fear – "Broken Man"
23. Willy G. and his Mother's Sons – "I Bet Satan Made Love to Your Mother"

## *Metal macht Musik*

* ECKHORST, Tim, *Metall macht Musik*, TheNextArt-Verlag, 2008. ISBN 978-3-939400-18-9
