# Get It (Stevie Wonder song)

*[Voce originale su Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Get_It_%28Stevie_Wonder_song%29)*

"**Get It**" is a song recorded by American singer-songwriter Stevie Wonder with a guest vocal by American pop recording artist Michael Jackson. It was released by Tamla as the third single from Wonder's twenty-first studio album, *Characters* (1987). At the time of the single's release, and their albums released in the same year, Wonder worked with Jackson on his top-selling *Bad* album for their first duet "Just Good Friends".
"Get It" was a R&B chart hit, peaking at number four. On the US *Billboard* Hot 100 it peaked at number 80. Overseas, the single became a moderate hit. In the UK, the single reached number 37 on the official UK Singles Chart.

## Background

Jackson and Wonder had a history of collaborating with each other over the years. The first dating back to 1974, in which Wonder crafted and produced a Jackson 5 album, which was eventually shelved. (One of those songs recorded, "Buttercup" appears on the 2009 compilation album *I Want You Back! Unreleased Masters*, released after Jackson's death.)

That same year, Michael and his brothers provided backing vocals to Wonder's hit "You Haven't Done Nothin'" from his parent album *Fullfillingness' First Finale*. Both Wonder and Jackson were part of an all-star choir included on Donna Summer's 1982 single "State of Independence" and 1985's "We Are the World", which Jackson co-wrote and both singles produced by Quincy Jones.

Jackson worked with Wonder again for the song "I Can't Help It" for Jackson's 1979 breakthrough album *Off the Wall*, which was written by Wonder and former Supremes member Susaye Greene. Within a year, Jackson also did background vocal work on "All I Do" from Wonder's platinum-selling *Hotter than July* album.

## Critical reception

*Cash Box* called it a "light dance tune, heavy on groove, low on fat" that is "exciting and accessible" and praised Wonder's "patented skipping base feel and percussive sound" and Jackson's singing. John Tague from *NME* viewed it as "a half-decent ditty that's more Jacko than Wonder."

*Melody Maker* called it "mutton-head funk for people with a few buttons short when it comes to the lobes. The bloody vultures are hovering. I sincerely hope they put an end to all this spinsterish stuff."

## Personnel

* Stevie Wonder – lead vocals, backing vocals, synthesizers, bass guitar, drums, and synthesized percussion
* Michael Jackson – lead vocals
* Mary Lee Evans – backing vocals
* Ben Bridges – guitar
* Robert Arbittier – synthesizer programming
* Gary Olazabal - additional keyboard overdubs

## Charts

### Weekly charts

| Chart (1988) | Peak position |
| --- | --- |
| Belgium (Ultratop 50 Flanders) | 15 |
| Europe (European Hot 100 Singles) | 88 |
| Finland (Suomen virallinen singlelista) | 22 |
| Italy Airplay (*Music & Media*) | 2 |
| UK Singles (OCC) | 37 |
| US *Billboard* Hot 100 | 80 |
| US Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs (*Billboard*) | 4 |
