# Get Out of My Way!

*[Voce originale su Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Get_Out_of_My_Way%21)*

***Get Out of My Way!*** is the first extended play by Mojo Nixon and Skid Roper. It was released in 1986 as a vinyl mini-album and cassette on Restless Records. The songs were added to the CD release of the album *Frenzy* in 1987. "Stuffin' Martha's Muffin" is the same recording as on *Frenzy*, but a different mix, which most notably filters Nixon's voice during part of the opening monologue to sound like he is on a telephone line; this version replaces the original on the *Frenzy* CD. "Transylvanian Xmas" is "Joy to the World" performed by Roper on harmonica in a scale reminiscent of horror movie scores, backed by Nixon on bongos. "Jesus at McDonalds" is a re-recording of the song from their first album, *Mojo Nixon and Skid Roper*.

Professional ratings

| Review scores | |
| --- | --- |
| Source | Rating |
| AllMusic |  |

## Track listing

All songs written by Mojo Nixon and published by Tallywacker Tunes/La Rana Music [BMI] except as indicated

1. "Get Out Of My Way!" (4:39)
2. "Stuffin' Martha's Muffin" (2:53)
3. "Rutabagas" (1:41)
4. "Burn Down the Malls" (4:50)
5. "Son of Santa" (3:39)
6. "Transylvanian Xmas" (Traditional; arranged by Skid Roper (0:39)
7. "Jesus at McDonalds" (5:16)

## Personnel

* Mojo Nixon - vocals, guitar, bongos
* Skid Roper - kick box percussion, washboard, harmonica, bells, tambourine

with:

* Bruce Joyner, Chris Davies, Douglas Farage, Fish Karma, Johnette Napolitano, Paul Kamanski, Peter Webster, Scott A. Reilly - Bigfoot choir
* Allan Waddle, Charley Brown, Dean Naleway, Ilene Markell, Peter Holsapple, Ron Lepper, Scott A. Reilly - Moron Tallywacker Choir

Engineered and mixed by Robert Feist. Recorded at Sound Affair.  
"Rutabagas" was engineered by Randy Burns and recorded at Hit City West.
