# Get Karl! Oh Soo-jung

*[Voce originale su Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Get_Karl%21_Oh_Soo-jung)*

***Get Karl! Oh Soo-jung*** (Korean: 칼잡이 오수정) is a 2007 South Korean romantic comedy television series starring Uhm Jung-hwa and Oh Ji-ho. It aired on SBS from July 28 to September 16, 2007 on Saturdays and Sundays at 21:45 for 16 episodes.

The series is based on the real-life love story of Lee Ju-young, the CEO of the drama's production company who reunited with her current husband ten years after breaking up with him. Moreover, Go Man-soo is the actual name of Lee's pro-golfer husband who incidentally instructed Oh Ji-ho on his golf swings in preparation for the role.

## Plot

Throughout her school days, Oh Soo-jung (Uhm Jung-hwa) was the girl every boy wanted to date, and every girl wanted to be. But having watched her poor family disintegrate after her mother abandoned her incompetent father, Soo-jung naturally becomes cynical and demanding when it comes to picking her choice of man. She dates Go Man-soo (Oh Ji-ho), an Ivy League law student, despite the lack of physical attraction (he is overweight and nerdy). But the moment she finds out that he has failed his bar exam, poor Man-soo gets dumped. Eight years later, the tables are turned. Soo-jung, now in her thirties, is no longer in demand. The former "it girl" has since fallen from grace. She manages a jewelry store owned by a less attractive schoolmate who married a lawyer, and now barks at Soo-jung every chance she gets.

Man-soo returns from the States a changed man; he has transformed into famous, rich, hunky pro-golfer Karl Go. He hires Jung Woo-tak (Kang Sung-jin) to play a wealthy bachelor, and once Soo-jung falls in love with him, he's to jilt her at the altar in the same way she jilted Man-soo. Meanwhile, Karl pretends to be the debt-ridden boyfriend of Soo-jung's boarder, Yook Dae-soon (Park Da-an). But his revenge plans go awry when he and Soo-jung fall in love with each other again. On her wedding day to Woo-tak, Soo-jung runs away and chooses Karl despite believing he's poor. Bitter that Karl chose a girdle-clad "old maid" over her, Dae-soon not only steals her creative ideas for jewelry design, but reveals to Soo-jung that Karl has been making a fool of her all this time. In the end, Soo-jung triumphs over Dae-soon professionally, then proposes to Karl, and they finally get married.

## Cast

### Main characters

* Oh Ji-ho as Go Man-soo / Karl Go
* Uhm Jung-hwa as Oh Soo-jung
* Kang Sung-jin as Jung Woo-tak
* Park Da-an as Yook Dae-soon

### Supporting characters

* Ahn Sun-young as Lee Young-ae, Soo-jung's friend
* Yoo Hye-jung as Kim Pil-sook, Soo-jung's friend
* Sung Dong-il as Jung Seung-gyu, Karl's manager/friend
* Ahn Yong-joon as Choi Soo-hyuk, Soo-jung's younger brother
* Kim Kap-soo as Oh Byung-jik, Soo-jung's father
* Yu Ji-in as Shim Wol-do, Soo-jung's mother
* Kim Dong-kyun as Yoon Dong-kwan, Young-ae's husband
* Jeong Min-jin as Daniel
* Seo Hee-seung as Man-soo's father
* Han Bok-hee as Man-soo's mother

## Episode ratings

| Date | Episode | Nationwide | Seoul |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| July 28, 2007 | 1 | 12.4 (9th) | 12.9 (9th) |
| July 29, 2007 | 2 | 14.8 (6th) | 16.2 (5th) |
| August 4, 2007 | 3 | 12.1 (8th) | 12.6 (9th) |
| August 5, 2007 | 4 | 15.5 (5th) | 16.3 (4th) |
| August 11, 2007 | 5 | 12.8 (7th) | 13.8 (7th) |
| August 12, 2007 | 6 | 14.3 (10th) | 15.1 (9th) |
| August 18, 2007 | 7 | 11.8 (9th) | 12.4 (7th) |
| August 19, 2007 | 8 | 14.5 (6th) | 15.4 (5th) |
| August 25, 2007 | 9 | 13.5 (7th) | 14.4 (6th) |
| August 26, 2007 | 10 | 13.9 (8th) | 14.9 (6th) |
| September 1, 2007 | 11 | 15.5 (5th) | 16.4 (5th) |
| September 2, 2007 | 12 | 14.1 (6th) | 15.1 (5th) |
| September 8, 2007 | 13 | 13.2 (6th) | 13.8 (5th) |
| September 9, 2007 | 14 | 11.6 (8th) | 12.1 (8th) |
| September 15, 2007 | 15 | 14.2 (6th) | 14.8 (5th) |
| September 16, 2007 | 16 | 14.7 (9th) | 15.8 (7th) |
| Average | | 13.7% | 14.5% |

## Soundtrack

1. 성공시대 - Sun
2. Man To Man (Inst.)
3. I Love Diamond (Inst.)
4. Love Line (Inst.)
5. Sentimental (Inst.)
6. Grey Shoes (Inst.)
7. Gloomy Day (Inst.)
8. Choice Of Love (Inst.)
9. Warning! (Inst.)
10. Putting On Make-Up (Inst.)
11. Regret (Inst.)
12. Step By Step (Inst.)
13. Lovely Woman (Inst.)
14. Sad Movies (Inst.)
15. Wanted! (Inst.)
16. Yellow Card (Inst.)
17. Show Me The Way (Inst.)

## International broadcast

* It aired in Vietnam on HTV3 from October 13, 2008, under the title *Sự trả thù ngọt ngào*.

## See also

* List of South Korean dramas
