# Get Busy Committee

*[Voce originale su Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Get_Busy_Committee)*

**Get Busy Committee** (a.k.a. **GBC**) was a hip-hop group consisting of underground rapper Apathy, Styles of Beyond's Ryu, and producer Scoop DeVille.

## Group Info

Get Busy Committee was formed in Los Angeles, California, by longtime friends Ryu, Apathy and Scoop DeVille.

They claim their influences come from Eazy-E, BBD (Bell Biv DeVoe), BDP (Boogie Down Productions). All production is done by Scoop DeVille and Apathy, while vocals are given by everyone in the group. Their debut album, *Uzi Does It*, was released for pre-sale download on October 27, 2009, at www.getbusycommittee.com, and available on iTunes and other outlets on November 10, 2009. The album is a 100% self-funded and self-released independent record.

> *Like, my album is underground. Demigodz is super underground. But Get Busy Committee is gonna be something really fuckin’ crazy. We have Topspin Media behind us. We have [Mike] Shinoda behind us. We got the dudes at MySpace Music heavily behind us. So Get Busy Committee is gonna be something else...[And] if you don’t like it, I don’t know what to tell you.*

— Apathy, Interview with HipHopDX

## Future

As of 2012, Get Busy Committee is on hiatus, or "dead" as they refer to the status of the group. A recorded album, Opening Ceremony, remains unreleased, while the group members focus on their solo careers.

## Collaborations

* "Suicide Music" - from *The Raid: Redemption* by Mike Shinoda and Joseph Trapanese (2012)

## Discography

### Group releases

| Album information |
| --- |
| *Uzi Does It*  * Released: 2009 * Label: Tokyo Sex Whale Records * Singles:  *Chillin Out Maxin*   *I Dont Care About You* |
