# Getroud_met_rugby

*[Voce originale su Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Getroud_met_rugby)*

***Getroud met rugby*** is a South African television series that premiered on kykNET on 7 April 2009. It was marketed as an Afrikaans-language adaptation of the British television show *Footballers' Wives*; the title literally translates into English as *Married To Rugby*. The series is one of the most-watched drama series on KykNET. It aired its final episode on 30 September 2022 after seven seasons.

## Summary

*Getroud met rugby* is a drama revolving around four players from a Johannesburg rugby team and their wives as they become involved in various interconnected scandals.

## Production

*Getroud met Rugby* was developed by Deon Opperman with his ex-wife, actress Hanli Rolfes-Opperman, who is also part of the main cast. Most of the actors on the show are well-respected Afrikaans actors. Cast members Ivan Botha and Altus Theart appeared in the film *Bakgat* in 2008 in which rugby was also the integral plot point.

The series was shot on location in Johannesburg and Krugersdorp on a schedule divided into two segments, the first from 29 September – 20 December 2008, and the second from March to May 2009. The crew utilized Sony EX3 High Definition cameras. Post-production was handled by The Film Factory, a post-production house in Johannesburg.

## Hiatus

From the end of 2010 to March 2012 the show was on a hiatus due to the filming of the movie *Getroud met Rugby: Die Onvertelde Storie*. Filming resumed in March 2012.

KykNET announced on 15 October 2009, that *Getroud met Rugby* had been renewed for a second season.
Season 4 premiered on 17 July 2012.

## Daily drama

Starting 4 April 2016 a new format (as a daily drama) was adopted, broadcast on kykNET on weekdays at 9:30 PM, in 30-minute episodes.

### Cast of the soap

* Liaan Ferreira as Frank
* Stephanie Baartman as Bibi
* Jocelyn Broderick as Nina
* David Clatworthy as Gerald
* Werner Coetser as Blitz
* Christo Compion as Pottie
* Arno Greeff as Thomas
* David Louw as Simon
* Vaughn Lucas as Denver
* Jolene Martin as Jade
* Fezile Mpela as Ike
* Rina Nienaber as Koekie
* Johan Scholtz as Schalk Brand
* Elsie Slabbert as Anja
* Franci Swanepoel as Laetitia
* Altus Theart as Fafa Beltrami
* Christel van den Bergh as Renate
* Marijke van der Westhuizen as Maryke
* Ilse-Lee van Niekerk as Lorette
* Louis van Niekerk as Festus
* Sean van Noordwyk as Reitz Bekker
* Anlia van Rensburg as Sasha
* David Vlok as Gideon Bekker
* Avah Weyer as Bella
* Melissa Willering as Chrizanda
