# Get_On_Up_(Jodeci_song)

*[Voce originale su Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Get_On_Up_%28Jodeci_song%29)*

"**Get on Up**" is a song by American R&B group Jodeci recorded for their third album, *The Show, the After Party, the Hotel* (1995). The song was released by Uptown/MCA as the third and final single for the album in January 1996. "Get on Up" contains the sample of the 1981 song from Quincy Jones featuring Toots Thielemans' "**Velas**". Produced by Mr. Dalvin and written by Mr. Dalvin and K-Ci & JoJo, it is the only Jodeci single to date that was not produced or written by group leader DeVante Swing. It was also the last Jodeci single released in 18 years before the group returned in 2014 with the single "Nobody Wins". The group performed the song when they guest starred in a season one episode of the UPN sitcom *Moesha*.

## Critical reception

Larry Flick from *Billboard* magazine wrote, "The time, the lads kick it lovely on a lively pop/funk throwdown that harks back to the Spinners and the Gap Band with its breezy harmonies and jovial hand claps. It's a perfect addition to the spring season's party soundtrack, so expect instant R&B radio action, followed by equally ardent play on top 40 stations."

## Track listings

* **CD, promo**

1. "Get on Up" (Radio Edit) - 3:40
2. "Get on Up" (Dalvin Remix) - 4:17
3. "Get on Up" (The Instant Flava Mix) - 4:26
4. "Get on Up" (LP Instrumental) - 4:21

* **Vinyl, 12"**

1. "Get on Up" (LP Version) - 3:43
2. "Get on Up" (Mr. Dalvin's Remix) - 4:17
3. "Freek'n You" - 5:07  
   (feat. Ghostface Killah and Raekwon)

## Personnel

Information taken from the album’s Liner Notes and Discogs.

* K-Ci Hailey - Lead and Background vocals
* Jojo Hailey - Lead and Background vocals
* Mr. Dalvin - Musical arrangement, Background vocals
* DeVante Swing - Background vocals
* Additional Instruments: Darryl Pearson
* Executive Producers: DeVante Swing, Andre Harrell
* Remixing: Instant Flava, Mr. Dalvin
* Scratches: DJ Double D (The Instant Flava Mix only)

## Charts

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Weekly charts  | Chart (1996) | Peak position | | --- | --- | | Australia (ARIA) | 191 | | US *Billboard* Hot 100 | 22 | | US Dance Club Songs (*Billboard*) | 10 | | US Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs (*Billboard*) | 4 | | US Rhythmic Airplay (*Billboard*) | 15 | | Year-end charts  | Chart (1996) | Position | | --- | --- | | US Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs (*Billboard*) | 23 | |

## Certifications

| Region | Certification | Certified units/sales |
| --- | --- | --- |
| New Zealand (RMNZ) | Gold | 15,000‡ |
| ‡ Sales+streaming figures based on certification alone. | | |
