# Get_Along_(video_album)

*[Voce originale su Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Get_Along_%28video_album%29)*

***Get Along*** is the third DVD released by Canadian indie rock duo Tegan and Sara. It was released November 15, 2011 by Warner Bros. Records and was reissued on vinyl in April 2012. *Get Along* is a collection of three films and a live album.

The first film, *States*, is a 30-minute documentary that showcases American touring footage and interviews with Tegan and Sara, detailing the early stages of their career and interactions with their fans. The second film, *India*, is a 25-minute documentary shot during Tegan and Sara's tour of India, utilising interview footage with the band as well as their family and friends. The third film, *For the Most Part*, is a 70-minute stripped-down studio concert, shot before a live audience of 75 people over two days at The Warehouse Studios in Vancouver.

*Get Along* was nominated for Best Long Form Music Video at the 2013 Grammy Awards, but lost to *Big Easy Express* by Edward Sharpe and the Magnetic Zeros.

## Track listing

The following is the track listing on the included live album.

All tracks are written by Sara Quin and Tegan Quin.

| No. | Title | Length |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 1. | "Alligator" | 3:00 |
| 2. | "I Know I Know I Know" | 3:02 |
| 3. | "Monday Monday Monday" | 3:36 |
| 4. | "I Hear Noises" | 3:27 |
| 5. | "Night Watch" | 2:59 |
| 6. | "Back in Your Head" | 3:43 |
| 7. | "Divided" | 3:15 |
| 8. | "Call It Off" | 2:38 |
| 9. | "Relief Next to Me" | 3:49 |
| 10. | "The Ocean" | 3:21 |
| 11. | "Nineteen" | 3:19 |
| 12. | "Knife Going In" | 2:29 |
| 13. | "Not with You" | 3:45 |
| 14. | "I Won't Be Left" | 3:12 |
| 15. | "Sentimental Tune" | 4:09 |
| Total length: | | 49:44 |

## Awards and nominations

| Ceremony | Award | Result |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 2012 Juno Awards | Music DVD of the Year | Nominated |
| 2013 Grammy Awards | Best Long Form Music Video |

## Reception

*Get Along* has received mixed reviews. Allie Conti of *Paste* stated that "*Get Along* has something to offer everyone, no matter where they lie on the spectrum of fandom", while SheWired's Ariel Shepherd-Oppenheim stated that "overall, the films were a bit of a disappointment. I wanted to learn more about them, and I didn't really feel like I did." A review in Consequence of Sound criticised the repetitive nature of some of the included songs, but concluded that "...imperfections and the occasional lack of focus aside, *Get Along* is a thoughtful gift to (Tegan and Sara) fans, who will no doubt cherish it." James Christopher Monger of AllMusic wrote that the live album "finds the duo waltzing through its 15-year career with the kind of ease and amiable confidence that can only come from longtime friends who also happen to be siblings."

## Charts

| Chart (2011) | Peak   position |
| --- | --- |
| US *Billboard* 200 | 116 |
| US Top Alternative Albums (*Billboard*) | 14 |
| US Top Rock Albums (*Billboard*) | 20 |

## Release history

| Country | Date | Format | Label | Catalog No. | Ref. |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Worldwide | November 15, 2011 | CD | Warner Bros. | 9362495381 |  |
| Digital download | * Vapor * Warner Bros. | —N/a |  |
| April 21, 2012 | Vinyl | Vapor | Not listed |  |
